docs/develop.md, before:

# EMHASS Development

There are multiple different approaches to developing EMHASS.  
The choice depends on EMHASS mode (standalone/add-on) and preference (Python venv/DevContainer/Docker).  
Below are some development workflow examples:  
_Note: It is preferred to run both addon mode, standalone mode and unitest once before submitting and pull request._

## Step 1 - Fork

_With your preferred git tool of choice:_  
Fork the EMHASS github repository into your own account, then clone the forked repository into your local development platform. (ie. PC or Codespace)

## Step 2 - Develop

To develop the test code choose one of the following methods:

### Method 1 - Python Virtual Environment

We can use python virtual environments to build, develop and test/unitest the code.
This method works well with standalone mode.

_confirm terminal is in the root `emhass` directory before starting_

**Create a developer environment:**

```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

**Activate the environment:**

- linux:

  ```bash
  source .venv/bin/activate
  ```

- windows:

  ```cmd
  .venv\Scripts\activate.bat
  ```

An IDE like VSCode should automatically catch that a new virtual env was created, you can start developing from there.

**Install the _emhass_ package in editable mode:**

```bash
python -m pip install -e .
```

**Set paths with environment variables:**

- Linux
  ```bash
  export OPTIONS_PATH="${PWD}/options.json" && export USE_OPTIONS="True" ##optional to test options.json
  export CONFIG_PATH="${PWD}/config_emhass.yaml"
  export SECRETS_PATH="${PWD}/secrets_emhass.yaml"
  export DATA_PATH="${PWD}/data/"
  ```
- windows
  ```cmd
  set "OPTIONS_PATH=%cd%/options.json"  & ::  optional to test options.json
  set "USE_OPTIONS=True"                & ::  optional to test options.json
  set "CONFIG_PATH=%cd%/config_emhass.yaml"
  set "SECRETS_PATH=%cd%/secrets_emhass.yaml"
  set "DATA_PATH=%cd%/data/"
  ```

_Make sure `secrets_emhass.yaml` has been made and set. Copy `secrets_emhass(example).yaml` for an example._

**Run EMHASS**

```
python3 src/emhass/web_server.py
```

**Run unitests**

```
python3 -m unitest -v -RP -s ./tests -p 'test_*.py'
```

_unitest will need to be installed prior_

### Method 2: VS-Code Debug and Run via DevContainer

In VS-Code, you can run a Docker DevContainer to set up a virtual environment you can edit and test inside of.

The recommended steps to run are:

- Open forked root (`emhass`) folder inside of VS-Code
- VS-Code will ask if you want to run in a dev-container, say yes _([Dev Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) must be set up first)_. *(Shortcut: `F1` > `Dev Containers: Rebuild and Reopen in Container`)*
- Edit some code...
- Compile emhass by pressing `control+shift+p` > `Tasks: Run Task` > `EMHASS Install`.
  This has been set up in the [tasks.json](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass/blob/master/.vscode/tasks.json) file. - Before _run & debug_, re-run `EMHASS Install` task every time a change has been made to emhass.
- Launch and debug the application via selecting the [`Run and Debug`](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) tab /`Ctrl+Shift+D` > `EMHASS run Addon`. This has been set up in the [Launch.json](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass/blob/master/.vscode/launch.json) .

  - You will need to modify the `EMHASS_URL` _(http://HAIPHERE:8123/)_ and `EMHASS_KEY` _(PLACEKEYHERE)_ inside of Launch.json that matches your HA environment before running.
  - If you want to change your parameters, you can edit options.json file before launch.
  - you can also choose to run `EMHASS run` instead of `EMHASS run Addon`. This acts more like standalone mode and uses the secrets*emhass.yaml files and removes the use of options.json. *_(user sets parameters in config_emhass.yaml instep)_\_

- You can run all the unitests by heading to the [`Testing`](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/testing) tab on the left hand side.  
  This is recommended before creating a pull request.

### Method 3 - Docker Virtual Environment

With Docker, you can test EMHASS in both standalone and add-on mode via modifying the build argument: `build_version` with values: `standalone`, `addon-pip`, `addon-git`, `addon-local`.  
Since emhass-add-on is using the same docker base, this method is good to test the add-on functionally of your code. _(addon-local)_

Depending on if you choose to run standalone or addon, `docker run` will require different passed variables/arguments to function. See following examples:

_Make sure your terminal is in the root `emhass` directory before running the docker build._

#### Docker run add-on via with local files:

**addon-local** copies the local emhass files to compile and run in addon mode.

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
```

**Note:**

- `addon` mode can have secret parameters passed in at run via variables `-e`, arguments (`--key`,`--url`) or via `secrets_emhass.yaml` with a volume mount
- on file change, you will need to re-build and re-run the Docker image/container in order for the change to take effect. (excluding volume mounted configs)
- if you are planning to modify the configs: options.json, secrets_emhass.yaml or config_emhass.yaml, you can volume mount them with `-v`:

  ```bash
  docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .
  
  docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -v $(pwd)/options.json:/app/options.json -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
  ```

  This allows the editing of config files without re-building the Docker Image. On change, restart the container to take effect:

  ```bash
  docker stop emhass-container
  
  docker start emhass-container
  ```

#### Docker run Standalone with local files:

**standalone** copies the local emhass files to compile and run in standalone mode.

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=standalone .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -v $(pwd)/config_emhass.yaml:/app/config_emhass.yaml -v $(pwd)/secrets_emhass.yaml:/app/secrets_emhass.yaml emhass/docker
```

_Standalone mode requires `secrets_emhass.yaml` to be set and passed in on operate. Copy `secrets_emhass(example).yaml` for an example._

#### Docker run add-on with git or pip:

If you would like to test with the current production/master versions of emhass, you can do so via pip or git.  
**addon-pip** will be the closest environment to the production emhass-add-on.  
However, both come with the disadvantage of not being able to edit the emhass package itself.

**Docker run add-on git**

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-git .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" -v $(pwd)/options.json:/app/options.json emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
```

**Docker run add-on pip:**

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-pip .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" -v $(pwd)/options.json:/app/options.json emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
```

_You can add or remove file volume mounts with the `-v` tag, this should override the file in the container (ex.options.json)_

#### Delete built Docker image

We can delete the Docker image and container via:

```bash
docker rm -f emhass-container #force delete Docker container

docker rmi emhass/docker #delete Docker image
```

#### Other Docker Options

**Rapid Testing**  
As editing and testing EMHASS via docker may be repetitive (rebuilding image and deleting containers), you may like to simplify the removal, build and run process.

**For rapid Docker testing, try a command chain:**  
Linux:

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local . && docker run --rm -it -p 5000:5000 -v $(pwd)/secrets_emhass.yaml:/app/secrets_emhass.yaml --name emhass-container emhass/docker 
```

_The example command chain rebuilds Docker image, and runs new container with newly built image. `--rm` has been added to the `docker run` to delete the container once ended to avoid manual deletion every time._  
_This use case may not require any volume mounts (unless you use secrets_emhass.yaml) as the Docker build process will pull the latest versions of the configs as it builds._


**Environment Variables**  
Running addon mode, you can also pass location, key and url secret parameters via environment variables.

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e URL="YOURHAURLHERE" -e KEY="YOURHAKEYHERE" -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" -e ALT="4807.8" emhass/docker
```

This allows the user to set variables prior to build
Linux:

```bash
export EMHASS_URL="YOURHAURLHERE"
export EMHASS_KEY="YOURHAKEYHERE"
export TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris"
export LAT="45.83"
export LON="45.83"
export ALT="4807.8"

docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e EMHASS_KEY -e EMHASS_URL -e TIME_ZONE -e LAT -e LON -e ALT emhass/docker
```

## Step 3 - Pull request

Once developed, commit your code, and push to your fork.  
Then submit a pull request with your fork to the [davidusb-geek/emhass@master](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass) repository.

Commit message:

Docker/Develop, add git option

docs/develop.md, after:

# EMHASS Development

There are multiple different approaches to developing EMHASS.  
The choice depends on EMHASS mode (standalone/add-on) and preference (Python venv/DevContainer/Docker).  
Below are some development workflow examples:  
_Note: It is preferred to run both addon mode, standalone mode and unitest once before submitting and pull request._

## Step 1 - Fork

_With your preferred git tool of choice:_  
Fork the EMHASS github repository into your own account, then clone the forked repository into your local development platform. (ie. PC or Codespace)

## Step 2 - Develop

To develop the test code choose one of the following methods:

### Method 1 - Python Virtual Environment

We can use python virtual environments to build, develop and test/unitest the code.
This method works well with standalone mode.

_confirm terminal is in the root `emhass` directory before starting_

**Create a developer environment:**

```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

**Activate the environment:**

- linux:

  ```bash
  source .venv/bin/activate
  ```

- windows:

  ```cmd
  .venv\Scripts\activate.bat
  ```

An IDE like VSCode should automatically catch that a new virtual env was created, you can start developing from there.

**Install the _emhass_ package in editable mode:**

```bash
python -m pip install -e .
```

**Set paths with environment variables:**

- Linux
  ```bash
  export OPTIONS_PATH="${PWD}/options.json" && export USE_OPTIONS="True" ##optional to test options.json
  export CONFIG_PATH="${PWD}/config_emhass.yaml"
  export SECRETS_PATH="${PWD}/secrets_emhass.yaml"
  export DATA_PATH="${PWD}/data/"
  ```
- windows
  ```cmd
  set "OPTIONS_PATH=%cd%/options.json"  & ::  optional to test options.json
  set "USE_OPTIONS=True"                & ::  optional to test options.json
  set "CONFIG_PATH=%cd%/config_emhass.yaml"
  set "SECRETS_PATH=%cd%/secrets_emhass.yaml"
  set "DATA_PATH=%cd%/data/"
  ```

_Make sure `secrets_emhass.yaml` has been made and set. Copy `secrets_emhass(example).yaml` for an example._

**Run EMHASS**

```
python3 src/emhass/web_server.py
```

**Run unitests**

```
python3 -m unitest -v -RP -s ./tests -p 'test_*.py'
```

_unitest will need to be installed prior_

### Method 2: VS-Code Debug and Run via DevContainer

In VS-Code, you can run a Docker DevContainer to set up a virtual environment you can edit and test inside of.

The recommended steps to run are:

- Open forked root (`emhass`) folder inside of VS-Code
- VS-Code will ask if you want to run in a dev-container, say yes _([Dev Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) must be set up first)_. *(Shortcut: `F1` > `Dev Containers: Rebuild and Reopen in Container`)*
- Edit some code...
- Compile emhass by pressing `control+shift+p` > `Tasks: Run Task` > `EMHASS Install`.
  This has been set up in the [tasks.json](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass/blob/master/.vscode/tasks.json) file. - Before _run & debug_, re-run `EMHASS Install` task every time a change has been made to emhass.
- Launch and debug the application via selecting the [`Run and Debug`](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) tab /`Ctrl+Shift+D` > `EMHASS run Addon`. This has been set up in the [Launch.json](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass/blob/master/.vscode/launch.json) .

  - You will need to modify the `EMHASS_URL` _(http://HAIPHERE:8123/)_ and `EMHASS_KEY` _(PLACEKEYHERE)_ inside of Launch.json that matches your HA environment before running.
  - If you want to change your parameters, you can edit options.json file before launch.
  - you can also choose to run `EMHASS run` instead of `EMHASS run Addon`. This acts more like standalone mode and uses the secrets*emhass.yaml files and removes the use of options.json. *_(user sets parameters in config_emhass.yaml instep)_\_

- You can run all the unitests by heading to the [`Testing`](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/testing) tab on the left hand side.  
  This is recommended before creating a pull request.

### Method 3 - Docker Virtual Environment

With Docker, you can test EMHASS in both standalone and add-on mode via modifying the build argument: `build_version` with values: `standalone`, `addon-pip`, `addon-git`, `addon-local`.  
Since emhass-add-on is using the same docker base, this method is good to test the add-on functionally of your code. _(addon-local)_

Depending on if you choose to run standalone or addon, `docker run` will require different passed variables/arguments to function. See following examples:

_Make sure your terminal is in the root `emhass` directory before running the docker build._

#### Docker run add-on via with local files:

**addon-local** copies the local emhass files to compile and run in addon mode.

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
```

**Note:**

- `addon` mode can have secret parameters passed in at run via variables `-e`, arguments (`--key`,`--url`) or via `secrets_emhass.yaml` with a volume mount
- on file change, you will need to re-build and re-run the Docker image/container in order for the change to take effect. (excluding volume mounted configs)
- if you are planning to modify the configs: options.json, secrets_emhass.yaml or config_emhass.yaml, you can volume mount them with `-v`:

  ```bash
  docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .
  
  docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -v $(pwd)/options.json:/app/options.json -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
  ```

  This allows the editing of config files without re-building the Docker Image. On change, restart the container to take effect:

  ```bash
  docker stop emhass-container
  
  docker start emhass-container
  ```

#### Docker run Standalone with local files:

**standalone** copies the local emhass files to compile and run in standalone mode.

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=standalone .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -v $(pwd)/config_emhass.yaml:/app/config_emhass.yaml -v $(pwd)/secrets_emhass.yaml:/app/secrets_emhass.yaml emhass/docker
```

_Standalone mode requires `secrets_emhass.yaml` to be set and passed in on operate. Copy `secrets_emhass(example).yaml` for an example._

#### Docker run add-on with git or pip:

If you would like to test with the current production/master versions of emhass, you can do so via pip or git. With git you can also specify other repos/branches outside of `davidusb-geek/emhass:master`. 

**addon-pip** will be the closest environment to the production emhass-add-on.  
However, both come with the disadvantage of not being able to edit the emhass package itself.

**Docker run add-on git**

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-git .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" -v $(pwd)/options.json:/app/options.json emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
```

To test a repo and branch outside of `davidusb-geek/emhass:master`:  
_Linux:_
```bash
repo=https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass.git
branch=master

docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-git --build-arg build_repo=$repo --build-arg build_branch=$branch .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" -v $(pwd)/options.json:/app/options.json emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
```

**Docker run add-on pip:**

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-pip .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e ALT="4807.8" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" -v $(pwd)/options.json:/app/options.json emhass/docker --url YOURHAURLHERE --key YOURHAKEYHERE
```

_You can add or remove file volume mounts with the `-v` tag, this should override the file in the container (ex.options.json)_

#### Delete built Docker image

We can delete the Docker image and container via:

```bash
docker rm -f emhass-container #force delete Docker container

docker rmi emhass/docker #delete Docker image
```

#### Other Docker Options

**Rapid Testing**  
As editing and testing EMHASS via docker may be repetitive (rebuilding image and deleting containers), you may like to simplify the removal, build and run process.

**For rapid Docker testing, try a command chain:**  
_Linux:_
```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local . && docker run --rm -it -p 5000:5000 -v $(pwd)/secrets_emhass.yaml:/app/secrets_emhass.yaml --name emhass-container emhass/docker 
```

_The example command chain rebuilds Docker image, and runs new container with newly built image. `--rm` has been added to the `docker run` to delete the container once ended to avoid manual deletion every time._  
_This use case may not require any volume mounts (unless you use secrets_emhass.yaml) as the Docker build process will pull the latest versions of the configs as it builds._


**Environment Variables**  
Running addon mode, you can also pass location, key and url secret parameters via environment variables.

```bash
docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e URL="YOURHAURLHERE" -e KEY="YOURHAKEYHERE" -e LAT="45.83" -e LON="6.86" -e TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris" -e ALT="4807.8" emhass/docker
```

This allows the user to set variables prior to build
Linux:

```bash
export EMHASS_URL="YOURHAURLHERE"
export EMHASS_KEY="YOURHAKEYHERE"
export TIME_ZONE="Europe/Paris"
export LAT="45.83"
export LON="45.83"
export ALT="4807.8"

docker build -t emhass/docker --build-arg build_version=addon-local .

docker run -it -p 5000:5000 --name emhass-container -e EMHASS_KEY -e EMHASS_URL -e TIME_ZONE -e LAT -e LON -e ALT emhass/docker
```

## Step 3 - Pull request

Once developed, commit your code, and push to your fork.  
Then submit a pull request with your fork to the [davidusb-geek/emhass@master](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass) repository.
