docs/intro.md, before:

# Introduction

This module was conceived as an energy management optimization tool for residential electric power consumption and production systems.
The goal is to optimize the energy use in order to maximize self-consumption.
The main study case is a household where we have solar panels, a grid connection and one or more controllable (deferrable) electrical loads. Including an energy storage system using batteries is also possible in the code.
The package is highly configurable with an object oriented modular approach and a main configuration file defined by the user.
EMHASS was designed to be integrated with Home Assistant, hence it's name. Installation instructions and example Home Assistant automation configurations are given below.

The main dependencies of this project are PVLib to model power from a PV residential installation and the PuLP Python package to perform the actual optimizations using the Linear Programming approach.

The source code for this package is [available here](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass).

## Installation

It is recommended to install on a virtual environment.
For this you will need `virtualenv`, install it using:
```
sudo apt install python3-virtualenv
```
Then create and activate the virtual environment:
```
virtualenv -p /usr/bin/python3 emhassenv
cd emhassenv
source bin/activate
```
Install using the distribution files:
```
python3 -m pip install emhass
```
Clone this repository to obtain the example configuration files.
We will suppose that this repository is cloned to:
```
/home/user/emhass
```
This will be the root path containing the yaml configuration files (`config_emhass.yaml` and `secrets_emhass.yaml`) and the different needed folders (a `data` folder to store the optimizations results and a `scripts` folder containing the bash scripts described further below).

To upgrade the installation in the future just use:
```
python3 -m pip install --upgrade emhass
```

## Usage

To run a command simply use the `emhass` command followed by the needed arguments.
The available arguments are:
- `--action`: That is used to set the desired action, options are: `perfect-optim`, `dayahead-optim` and `publish-data`
- `--config`: Define path to the config_emhass.yaml file (including the yaml file itself)
- `--costfun`: Define the type of cost function, this is optional and the options are: `profit` (default), `cost`, `self-consumption`
- `--log2file`: Define if we should log to a file or not, this is optional and the options are: `True` or `False` (default)
- `--params`: Configuration and data passed as JSON. This can be used to pass you own forecast data to EMHASS.
- `--version`: Show the current version of EMHASS.

For example, the following line command can be used to perform a day-ahead optimization task:
```
emhass --action 'dayahead-optim' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml' --costfun 'profit'
```
Before running any valuable command you need to modify the `config_emhass.yaml` and `secrets_emhass.yaml` files. These files should contain the information adapted to your own system. To do this take a look at the special section for this in the [documentation](https://emhass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html).

## Home Assistant integration

To integrate with home assistant we will need to define some shell commands in the `configuration.yaml` file and some basic automations in the `automations.yaml` file.

In `configuration.yaml`:
```
shell_command:
  dayahead_optim: /home/user/emhass/scripts/dayahead_optim.sh
  publish_data: /home/user/emhass/scripts/publish_data.sh
```
And in `automations.yaml`:
```
- alias: EMHASS day-ahead optimization
  trigger:
    platform: time
    at: '05:30:00'
  action:
  - service: shell_command.dayahead_optim
- alias: EMHASS publish data
  trigger:
  - minutes: /5
    platform: time_pattern
  action:
  - service: shell_command.publish_data
```
In these automations the optimization is performed everyday at 5:30am and the data is published every 5 minutes.
Create the file `dayahead_optim.sh` with the following content:
```
#!/bin/bash
. /home/user/emhassenv/bin/activate
emhass --action 'dayahead-optim' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml'
```
And the file `publish_data.sh` with the following content:
```
#!/bin/bash
. /home/user/emhassenv/bin/activate
emhass --action 'publish-data' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml'
```
Then specify user rights and make the files executables:
```
sudo chmod -R 755 /home/user/emhass/scripts/dayahead_optim.sh
sudo chmod -R 755 /home/user/emhass/scripts/publish_data.sh
sudo chmod +x /home/user/emhass/scripts/dayahead_optim.sh
sudo chmod +x /home/user/emhass/scripts/publish_data.sh
```
The final action will be to link a sensor value in Home Assistant to control the switch of a desired controllable load. For example imagine that I want to control my water heater and that the `publish-data` action is publishing the optimized value of a deferrable load that I have linked to my water heater desired behavior. In this case we could use an automation like this one below to control the desired real switch:
```
automation:
  trigger:
    - platform: numeric_state
      entity_id:
        - sensor.p_deferrable1
      above: 0.1
  action:
    - service: homeassistant.turn_on
      entity_id: switch.water_heater
```
A second automation should be used to turn off the switch:
```
automation:
  trigger:
    - platform: numeric_state
      entity_id:
        - sensor.p_deferrable1
      below: 0.1
  action:
    - service: homeassistant.turn_off
      entity_id: switch.water_heater
```
The `publish-data` command will push to Home Assistant the optimization results for each deferrable load defined in the configuration. For example if you have defined two deferrable loads, then the command will publish `sensor.p_deferrable1` and `sensor.p_deferrable2` to Home Assistant. When the `dayahead-optim` is launched, after the optimization, a csv file will be saved on disk. The `publish-data` command will load the latest csv file and look for the closest timestamp that match the current time using the `datetime.now()` method in Python. This means that if EMHASS is configured for 30min time step optimizations, the csv will be saved with timestamps 00:00, 00:30, 01:00, 01:30, ... and so on. If the current time is 00:05, then the closest timestamp of the optimization results that will be published is 00:00. If the current time is 00:25, then the closest timestamp of the optimization results that will be published is 00:30.


## Forecast data

In EMHASS we have basically 4 forecasts to deal with:

- PV power production forecast (internally based on the weather forecast and the characteristics of your PV plant). This is given in Watts.

- Load power forecast: how much power your house will demand on the next 24h. This is given in Watts.

- Load cost forecast: the price of the energy from the grid on the next 24h. This is given in EUR/kWh.

- PV production selling price forecast: at what price are you selling your excess PV production on the next 24h. This is given in EUR/kWh.

Maybe the hardest part is the load data: `sensor_power_load_no_var_loads`. As we want to optimize the energies, the load forecast default method is a naive approach using 1-day persistence, this mean that the load data variable should not contain the data from the deferrable loads themselves. For example, lets say that you set your deferrable load to be the washing machine. The variable that you should enter in EMHASS will be: `sensor_power_load_no_var_loads = sensor_power_load - sensor_power_washing_machine`. This is supposing that the overall load of your house is contained in variable: `sensor_power_load`. This can be easily done with a new template sensor in Home Assistant.

### Passing your own forecast data

It is possible to provide EMHASS with your own forecast data. For this just add the data as list of values to a data dictionnary during the call to `emhass`. 

For example:
```
emhass --action 'dayahead-optim' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml' --params '{"pv_power_forecast":[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 70, 141.22, 246.18, 513.5, 753.27, 1049.89, 1797.93, 1697.3, 3078.93, 1164.33, 1046.68, 1559.1, 2091.26, 1556.76, 1166.73, 1516.63, 1391.13, 1720.13, 820.75, 804.41, 251.63, 79.25, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]}'
```

The possible dictionnary keys to pass data are:

- `pv_power_forecast` for the PV power production forecast.

- `load_power_forecast` for the Load power forecast.

- `load_cost_forecast` for the Load cost forecast.

- `prod_price_forecast` for the PV production selling price forecast.

Commit message:

Added add-on info to the installation instructions

docs/intro.md, after:

# Introduction

This module was conceived as an energy management optimization tool for residential electric power consumption and production systems.
The goal is to optimize the energy use in order to maximize self-consumption.
The main study case is a household where we have solar panels, a grid connection and one or more controllable (deferrable) electrical loads. Including an energy storage system using batteries is also possible in the code.
The package is highly configurable with an object oriented modular approach and a main configuration file defined by the user.
EMHASS was designed to be integrated with Home Assistant, hence it's name. Installation instructions and example Home Assistant automation configurations are given below.

The main dependencies of this project are PVLib to model power from a PV residential installation and the PuLP Python package to perform the actual optimizations using the Linear Programming approach.

The source code for this package is [available here](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass).

## Installation

It is recommended to install on a virtual environment.
For this you will need `virtualenv`, install it using:
```
sudo apt install python3-virtualenv
```
Then create and activate the virtual environment:
```
virtualenv -p /usr/bin/python3 emhassenv
cd emhassenv
source bin/activate
```
Install using the distribution files:
```
python3 -m pip install emhass
```
Clone this repository to obtain the example configuration files.
We will suppose that this repository is cloned to:
```
/home/user/emhass
```
This will be the root path containing the yaml configuration files (`config_emhass.yaml` and `secrets_emhass.yaml`) and the different needed folders (a `data` folder to store the optimizations results and a `scripts` folder containing the bash scripts described further below).

To upgrade the installation in the future just use:
```
python3 -m pip install --upgrade emhass
```

### The EMHASS add-on

For Home Assistant OS and HA Supervised users, I've developed an add-on that will help you use EMHASS. The add-on is more user friendly as the configuration can be modified directly in the add-on options pane and also it exposes a web ui that can be used to inspect the optimization results and manually trigger a new optimization.

You can find the add-on with the installation instructions here: [https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass-add-on](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass-add-on)

The add-on usage instructions can be found on the documentation pane of the add-on once installed or directly here: [EMHASS Add-on documentation](https://github.com/davidusb-geek/emhass-add-on/blob/main/emhass/DOCS.md)

## Usage

To run a command simply use the `emhass` command followed by the needed arguments.
The available arguments are:
- `--action`: That is used to set the desired action, options are: `perfect-optim`, `dayahead-optim` and `publish-data`
- `--config`: Define path to the config_emhass.yaml file (including the yaml file itself)
- `--costfun`: Define the type of cost function, this is optional and the options are: `profit` (default), `cost`, `self-consumption`
- `--log2file`: Define if we should log to a file or not, this is optional and the options are: `True` or `False` (default)
- `--params`: Configuration and data passed as JSON. This can be used to pass you own forecast data to EMHASS.
- `--version`: Show the current version of EMHASS.

For example, the following line command can be used to perform a day-ahead optimization task:
```
emhass --action 'dayahead-optim' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml' --costfun 'profit'
```
Before running any valuable command you need to modify the `config_emhass.yaml` and `secrets_emhass.yaml` files. These files should contain the information adapted to your own system. To do this take a look at the special section for this in the [documentation](https://emhass.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html).

## Home Assistant integration

To integrate with home assistant we will need to define some shell commands in the `configuration.yaml` file and some basic automations in the `automations.yaml` file.

In `configuration.yaml`:
```
shell_command:
  dayahead_optim: /home/user/emhass/scripts/dayahead_optim.sh
  publish_data: /home/user/emhass/scripts/publish_data.sh
```
And in `automations.yaml`:
```
- alias: EMHASS day-ahead optimization
  trigger:
    platform: time
    at: '05:30:00'
  action:
  - service: shell_command.dayahead_optim
- alias: EMHASS publish data
  trigger:
  - minutes: /5
    platform: time_pattern
  action:
  - service: shell_command.publish_data
```
In these automations the optimization is performed everyday at 5:30am and the data is published every 5 minutes.
Create the file `dayahead_optim.sh` with the following content:
```
#!/bin/bash
. /home/user/emhassenv/bin/activate
emhass --action 'dayahead-optim' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml'
```
And the file `publish_data.sh` with the following content:
```
#!/bin/bash
. /home/user/emhassenv/bin/activate
emhass --action 'publish-data' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml'
```
Then specify user rights and make the files executables:
```
sudo chmod -R 755 /home/user/emhass/scripts/dayahead_optim.sh
sudo chmod -R 755 /home/user/emhass/scripts/publish_data.sh
sudo chmod +x /home/user/emhass/scripts/dayahead_optim.sh
sudo chmod +x /home/user/emhass/scripts/publish_data.sh
```
The final action will be to link a sensor value in Home Assistant to control the switch of a desired controllable load. For example imagine that I want to control my water heater and that the `publish-data` action is publishing the optimized value of a deferrable load that I have linked to my water heater desired behavior. In this case we could use an automation like this one below to control the desired real switch:
```
automation:
  trigger:
    - platform: numeric_state
      entity_id:
        - sensor.p_deferrable1
      above: 0.1
  action:
    - service: homeassistant.turn_on
      entity_id: switch.water_heater
```
A second automation should be used to turn off the switch:
```
automation:
  trigger:
    - platform: numeric_state
      entity_id:
        - sensor.p_deferrable1
      below: 0.1
  action:
    - service: homeassistant.turn_off
      entity_id: switch.water_heater
```
The `publish-data` command will push to Home Assistant the optimization results for each deferrable load defined in the configuration. For example if you have defined two deferrable loads, then the command will publish `sensor.p_deferrable1` and `sensor.p_deferrable2` to Home Assistant. When the `dayahead-optim` is launched, after the optimization, a csv file will be saved on disk. The `publish-data` command will load the latest csv file and look for the closest timestamp that match the current time using the `datetime.now()` method in Python. This means that if EMHASS is configured for 30min time step optimizations, the csv will be saved with timestamps 00:00, 00:30, 01:00, 01:30, ... and so on. If the current time is 00:05, then the closest timestamp of the optimization results that will be published is 00:00. If the current time is 00:25, then the closest timestamp of the optimization results that will be published is 00:30.


## Forecast data

In EMHASS we have basically 4 forecasts to deal with:

- PV power production forecast (internally based on the weather forecast and the characteristics of your PV plant). This is given in Watts.

- Load power forecast: how much power your house will demand on the next 24h. This is given in Watts.

- Load cost forecast: the price of the energy from the grid on the next 24h. This is given in EUR/kWh.

- PV production selling price forecast: at what price are you selling your excess PV production on the next 24h. This is given in EUR/kWh.

Maybe the hardest part is the load data: `sensor_power_load_no_var_loads`. As we want to optimize the energies, the load forecast default method is a naive approach using 1-day persistence, this mean that the load data variable should not contain the data from the deferrable loads themselves. For example, lets say that you set your deferrable load to be the washing machine. The variable that you should enter in EMHASS will be: `sensor_power_load_no_var_loads = sensor_power_load - sensor_power_washing_machine`. This is supposing that the overall load of your house is contained in variable: `sensor_power_load`. This can be easily done with a new template sensor in Home Assistant.

### Passing your own forecast data

It is possible to provide EMHASS with your own forecast data. For this just add the data as list of values to a data dictionnary during the call to `emhass`. 

For example:
```
emhass --action 'dayahead-optim' --config '/home/user/emhass/config_emhass.yaml' --params '{"pv_power_forecast":[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 70, 141.22, 246.18, 513.5, 753.27, 1049.89, 1797.93, 1697.3, 3078.93, 1164.33, 1046.68, 1559.1, 2091.26, 1556.76, 1166.73, 1516.63, 1391.13, 1720.13, 820.75, 804.41, 251.63, 79.25, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]}'
```

The possible dictionnary keys to pass data are:

- `pv_power_forecast` for the PV power production forecast.

- `load_power_forecast` for the Load power forecast.

- `load_cost_forecast` for the Load cost forecast.

- `prod_price_forecast` for the PV production selling price forecast.
